

5 Operational domains:

Space: Outside atmosphere

Important:
greater than 100 kilometers above mean sea level

Land: Self explanatory





Air: everything below space above ground







Sea: Maritime navy shit



Cyberspace: thats us. Global domain within the information enviorment consisting interdependent network of info.


Layers of cyberspace:

Physical Network layer

Logical Network layer

Cyber Persona layer




IMPORTANT: Access can be gained through any combination of wired, optical or wireless means. While some accesses can be achieved remotely through assigned permissions and other means legitmate or fruadulent access to closed networks and other systems that are virtually isolated may require physical proximity or more complex, time consuming processes



LSA 2: Exaplain the Joint All-Domain Operations Concept


The integrated planning and employment of Joint and Interagency information capabilities , resources and activities that enchance the single battle concept and provide defensive, offensive and exploitative effects and support in order to operate, fight and win in and through a contested information enviroment



JADC2
The warfighting capability to sense, make snese and act at all levels and phases of war, across all domains and with partners to deliver information advantage at the speed of relevance.




The Problem:

Competetion:
In a state of continuous competition, China and Ruissia exploit the conditions of the operational environment to achieve their objectives without resorting to armed conflict by fracturing U.S. alliances, partnerships and resolve



Conflict:
In armed conflict China and Russia seek to achieve physical stand off by employing layers of anti access and area denial systems designed to rapidly inflict unacceptable losses on U.S. and parnet millitary forces achieving campaign objectives within days faster than the U.S. can effectively respond.









LSA 3: Outline the Multi-Domain Task Force (MDTF) and MEF information group (MIG)





Important: The MDEB Supports MDTF targeting efforts by providing near real time signals and intelligence (SIGINT), geospatial intelligence (GEOINT) and open source (OSINT) target acquisiton and products.








Multi Domain Effects Battalion: (MDEB) provides mutli domain sensing and intelligence support, target development and delivery and synchronization of 




MEF: The Mef information group (MIG) cordinates integrates and employs cpabilities for information environment operations i order to ensure the marine air ground task fource (MAGTF) commanders ability




IMPORTANT: EABO - A form of expeditionary warfare that involves the employment of mobile, low signature, persistent and relatively easy to main and sustain naval expeditionary fores.











New Slidedeck: Introduction to join operations




Important: The united states entered World War 2 (WW2) with an archaic military organization, incapable of coordinating land, sea and air activities across its two millitary departments (War and Navy)



Important: In 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt created the Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) by executive direction primarily to work with the British, Who had a combined chiefs of staf organiation.

Specific Responsibilites were not defined, and service politics and jealousies frustrated efforts to conduct efficient joint operations.





Important: During and after WW2, numerous efforts sought to rectify the US militarys disjointednesss


The national Security act of 1947:
Created the national Millitary Establishment (A DOD precursor)
Prescribed a weak SECDEF
Gave legal standing to the JCS, but no chairman
Continued to empower the Millitary Deparment Secretaries as members of both the cabinet and the new National Securit Council (NSC); service domination also continued to trump the authority of unified commanders in the field



Legislated Revisions to the national Security Act in 1949, 1953 and 1958 attempted to mend these defiencies particularly bu
Strengthing the Secdef
Establishinhg the chair of the joint cheifs of staff CJCS
Removing Millitary secretaries and serivice chiefs from opeerational chain of command
Giving unified commanders full operation command of assinged forces



Important: However these provisions were not effectively implemented, so the millitary departments retained a de faco role in the operationlal chain of command and never complied with the provision of strenghting the unified commanders.



Important: Numerous millitary failures highlighted instituional defencies at all levels. The adhoc nature of the joint effort in these operations contributed to an inability to effectively link tactical actions to strategic ends.



Goldwater-Nichols Act 1986



Important: In addition to the impetus provided by these operational failures, several disparata factors came together in the mid 190s which enabled DOD organizational change. These included extensive congressional hearings, a major senate inquir, bi-partisan openness to rectify the situiation a presidentail commission, and the appointment of a reform minded CJCS Admiral William Crowe, In October 1985.
Major Changes:
Chain of command and Millitary Advice


Interaction of the Services


Personnel Management


Shared Procurement



Command and Control:
Supporting Commander(Beta Male):
Determines forces, tactics, methods, procdeures and commincations for employment (includes internal task organization)
Responsible to ascertain needs.
Fulfill needs.
Maintains normal command relationship with subordinate forces unless establishing directive changes it.

Supported Commander(Alpha Male):
Has  the authority to exercise general direction of supporting effort
Desgnation and priortiation of missions, targets or Objectives
Timing and Durtation of supporting action
Other Actions for coordination and effciency (liasion and reporting)



Important: Global Force Management (GFM) is a group of related processes that establish strategic C2 and strategic posture and provide insight to global millitary force availability based on millitary plans and operations to  support DoD's stragtetic decisions. GFM integrates directed readiness assingments, allocation, apportionment, and assesment processes for force management and planing constructs.


The Secdef assings forces to CCDRs to accomplish CCDRs



The Secdef allocates forces to CCDR to mee current






Important: Joint commands are established by missions and responsibilites often based on either a geographic AOR or functions.

Important: AOR boundaries are not restrictive because CCDRs forces can operate wherever they are required to accomplish missions. Joint forces based solely on functional responsiblites may be appropriate for certain types of continuing operations.



Combatant ommands with geographic AOrs

Important: USCENTCOM: Located at MacDill Airforce base in Tampa, FLorida


Important: USINDOPACCOM located at Camp H.M. Smith in Oahu Hawaii

Important: USSOUTHCOM Located in Miami Flordia

Important: USNORTHCOM located in Peterson Air force base AFB in Colorado Springs

Important: USAFRICOM s located at Kelley Barracks in Stugart Germany:

Important: USSPACECOM disbanded after 9/11

Important: USSOCOM (Special Operations) is located at MacDill AFB in Tampa, Florida 

Important: USSTARTCOM located at Offutt Air Force Base in Bellevue, Nebraska

Important: USTRANSCOM Located at Scott Airforce Base in Bellvile, Illnois

Important: USCYBERCOM Located at Fort Meade, (We operate all over) For test put Fort Meade.



Interagency:
Important: The National Archives Federal Register List 436 Federal Agencies, each with their own culture, processes, tactics, techniques and procdures.



Important: Title 10 is us active duty gives us responsibilites and parameters to operate under
Important: Title 50 Coast Guard, Cia
Important: Title 22 the secretary of state is responsible for assisitng the president with foreign policy.



Joint Operations:
Important: Joint operations are millitary actions conducted by joint forces and those service forces employed in specified command relationships with each other, which of themselves do not establish joint forces.

Important: A joint force is one composed of Significant elements assinged or rattach, of two ore more millitary departments operating under a single joint force commander.

Important: Cooperation: Situation in which joint forces take actions with another staegic partner in pursuit of policy objectives.
Important: Adversarial Competition: Joint forces or multinational forces can take actions below armed conflict against a state or non state.
Important: Armed Conflict/War: Occurs when a state direct its millitary forces to take actions against an enemy in hostilities or declared war.


Important: Levels of Warfare:  Strategic, Operational, Tactical.





New Slide deck: The information Enviroment and Operations in the information environment

Important: The information environment (IE) is the aggregate of social, cultural, psychological, technical and physical factors that affect how humans and automated systems derive meaning from, act upoon and are impacted by information, including the individiuals, organizaitons and systems that collect, process, dissemninate or use information.

Informantional Aspects - the way that individuals, information system and groups communicat and exchange information.

Physical aspects - the mateiral characterisitoc both natural and manufactured, of the enviornment that may inhibit or enhance communication. Physical aspects may create constraints and freedoms on the people and information sysstems that operate in it. Physucal aspects ae critical elements of group identity and impact how groups form, behave

Human aspects - Human aspects are the interactions among and between people and the environment that shape human behavior and decision making. Those interactions are based upon the linguistic, social, culture, psychological, and physical elements.


Important: Informational aspects reflect the way that individuals, information systems and groups communicate and exchange information. Informational aspects are the sensory inputs (e.g. content, medium, format and context) of actiivities that a receiver interprets and uses to assign meaning.







Important: Joint forces use of information is focused on achieiving two goals:

Information advantage - The operational advantage gained through the joint forces use of information for decision making and its ability to leverage information to create effects on the IE.


Informational Power - The ability to use information to support achievement of objectives and gain an informational advantage.


Important: The elevation of information as a joint function impacts all operations and signals a fundamental appreciation for the millitary role of information at the strategic, opeerational and tactical levels within todays complex OE.

Important: OIE ASSESSMENT: Assement of information in joint operations are conducted in accordance with the Operation Assessment Process.



Organizing for OIE: Important: Information forces, the building blocks of OIE units, are those Active Component and Reserve COmponent forces specifically organized, trianed and equipped to create and/or support the creation of effects on the IE.


Important: Remember information forces are the building blocks of OIE units.


Interagency in OIE 

Important: Effective integration of the appropriate U.S. government organizations will enhance the overall success of joint force operations. There are a multitiude of organizations inside and outside DOD that are relevant to the joint forces management and application of information.




Important: Public affairs is like what the media reports on.

Important: Millitary Deception (MILDEC) Commanders conduct MILDEC to mislead enemy decision makers and commanders and cause them to take or not take specific actions. The intent is to cause enemy commanders to form inaccurate.


Important: COMCAM: COMCAM is an essential battlefield information resource that supports strategic tactical and operational mission objectives, As the primary suppliers of operational imagery to support battle information superiority, COMCAM documentation teams will be combat trained and equipped, quickly deployable and able to operate in austere and hostile environments.

Important: Cyber Operations (CO) CO employ cyberspace capabilities to achieve objectives in or through cyberspace.


Important: Space ops: The cornerstone responsibilities of millitary space forces are to preseve freeom of action, enable joint lethality and effectiveness and provide national leadership with independent millitary operations. Space operations integ

Important: Commanders should deconflict and synch other activities with STO. STO actions oficers at CCMD or Service component HQs can proviide millitary and civilian leaership.

Important: EMSO: EMSO Actions to exploit attack protect and manage the electromagnetic environment rely on personnel and systems from EW, EWS management, Intelligence, space and cyberspace missions areas.

Important: KLE  (Key leader engagement) Most operations require commanders and other leaders to conduct KLEs with key local and regional leaders to affect their attitudes, gain their support, and cultivate them as sources of information. Buidliing relationships to point of effective millitary engagement and influence usually takes times.




-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Day 2-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Important: The electromagnetic spectrum (EMS) is a manuever space essential for facilitating control within the operational environment (OE) and impacts all portions of the OE and millitary operations.




Important: Joint Warighting Concept (JWC) was developed to address the joint forces need to adapt to the changing character of war and geopolitical landscape which requires an integrated and interoperable, multi-domain cpable, joint and coalition force to demonstrate credible deterrence

Important: Joint electromagnetic spectrum operations (JEMSO) are millitary actions undertaken by a joint force to exploit, attack, protect and manage the electromagnetic environment.


Important: The EMS, as the range of all types of electromagnetic radiation is a fundmental component of the natural environment, and the electromagnetic operational environment (EMOE) is a space in which millitary functions are Performed.


Important: The electromagnetic environent (EME) is the EMS portion of the information environment where millitary operations are executed. The recognized need for millitary forces to have unimpeded access to, and use of, the EME creates vulnerabilities and opportunities for EW in support of millitary actions.


THis is EW Support: D4M is Deny, Degrade, Disrupt, Destroy and Manipulate. It is a form of electromagnetic support (ES).

Subdivisions

EW Attack
EW Support
EW Protection



New Slidedeck - Space operations
Important: Space operations are operations impacting or directly utilizing space and ground-based capabilities to enchance the potential of the United States and multinational partners. Joint space forces are the space and terrestrial systems, equiipment, facilities, organizations and personnel or combi


Important: SSA is the requisite foundational, current, and predictive knowledge and characterization of space objects and the OE upon which space operation s depend, to include physical, virtual, information and human dimensions as well as all factors, activities, and events of all entities conducting, or preparing 









New Slidedeck Cyberspace operations overview



Cyberspace Operations (CO) use link and nodes located in the physical domain and perform logical functions to create effects first in cyberspace and then as needed in the physical domain


DODIN Operations mission is to secure configure operate extend maintain and sustain DOD cyberspace to create and preserve the confidentiality availabitly and integriy of the DODIN.


Important: Geographic Challenges: There is no stateless manuevers space in cyberspace


Important: OCO missions leverage adversary and enemy relience on informatiom, information technology, and data

Important: The goal of DCO is to defeat the threat of a specific adversary and/or to return a compromised network to a secure and functional state.


Important: The set of DODIN-owned and DOD-leased information capabilties and associated procceses for collecting processing storing disseminating and managing information on demand to warfighters policy makers and support personnel whether interconnected or stand-alone

Important: Although many DODIN operations activities are regulary scheduled events they should not be considered routine or unimportant since their aggregate effect establishes the security framework on which all DOD missions ultimately depend.











New Slidedeck Cyber Mission Force Overview

CO = Cyber Operations
CCDRs = Combantant Commanders

CNMF: Cyber National Mission Force Conducts Cyber Operations to defeat threats to the DODIN and the nation

Cyper Protection Force: Conducts Cyber Operations for internal defense of the DODIN or other blue cyberspace when ordered

Cyber Combat Mission Force: Conducts CO to support the missions, plans and priorities of the CCDRs



NST: Reinforce NMTs by providing direct support in specialized areas to enable NMTs to complete their assigned missions.

CST(CombatSupportTeams): Provide Intelligence and capability development to support the preparation and execution of cyberspace operations




Cyper Protections team (CPT): Conduct threat-focused intelligence driven defensive cyberspace operatons on specified key terrain in response to ongoing or imminent threats as directed.


 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Day 3----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------







